README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Hikvision Add-ons

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons">
        <img src="https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg" alt="Open your Home Assistant instance and show the add add-on repository dialog with a specific repository URL pre-filled.">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports amd64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports aarch64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports i386 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
</p>

This repository can be added to an Home Assistant OS installation.
It provides the following add-ons:

## [Hikvision Doorbell](hikvision-sdk/README.md)

Connect to you Hikvision IP doorbells to receive events (motion detection, incoming call, etc..) and relay back commands (reject call, open doors, etc...).

To quickly get started, click the following button:
[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the dashboard of a Supervisor add-on.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=aff2db71_hikvision_sdk&repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons)

## [Hikvision Doorbell (Beta)](doorbell_beta/README.md)

Pre-release version, containing new features and additions that are being actively developed and tested, to be released in the next stable version.

__NOTE__: This version is not recommended for general use, but may be of interest if you like bleeding-edge functionalities!

To quickly get started, click the following button:
[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the dashboard of a Supervisor add-on.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell_beta&repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons)

## [Use Asterisk as Indoor extension](https://github.com/pergolafabio/Hikvision-Addons/blob/dev/asterisk/asterisk.as.indoor.md)

__NOTE__: This is not an add-on, just an alternate way to setup Asterisk without setting up SIP on the devices!

## [Use Frigate with Two Audio Support and a Lovelace Hass Card](https://github.com/pergolafabio/Hikvision-Addons/blob/dev/frigate/twowayaudio.with.frigate.md)

__NOTE__: This is not an add-on, just an alternate way to answers calls using Home Assistant with Two Way Audio ISAPI support!

## Donations
 Like my work? You can always [send me a donation](https://paypal.me/pergolafabio).

Commit message:

update docs and release a stable build

README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Hikvision Add-ons

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons">
        <img src="https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg" alt="Open your Home Assistant instance and show the add add-on repository dialog with a specific repository URL pre-filled.">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports amd64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports aarch64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports i386 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
</p>

This repository can be added to an Home Assistant OS installation.
It provides the following add-ons:

## [Hikvision Doorbell](doorbell/README.md)

Connect to you Hikvision IP doorbells to receive events (motion detection, incoming call, etc..) and relay back commands (reject call, open doors, etc...).

To quickly get started, click the following button:
[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the dashboard of a Supervisor add-on.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=aff2db71_hikvision_sdk&repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons)


## [Running as a standalone container](docs/docker.md)

This program can run as a standalone Docker container, for all other type of installations. (Openhab, Home Assistant, ...)
[Consult the docs for more info](docs/docker.md)


## [Hikvision Doorbell (Beta)](doorbell_beta/README.md)

Pre-release version, containing new features and additions that are being actively developed and tested, to be released in the next stable version.

__NOTE__: This version is not recommended for general use, but may be of interest if you like bleeding-edge functionalities!

To quickly get started, click the following button:
[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the dashboard of a Supervisor add-on.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell_beta&repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons)

## [Use Asterisk as Indoor extension](asterisk/asterisk.as.indoor.md)

__NOTE__: This is not an add-on, just an alternate way to setup Asterisk without setting up SIP on the devices!

## [Use Frigate with Two Audio Support and a Lovelace Hass Card](frigate/twowayaudio.with.frigate.md)

__NOTE__: This is not an add-on, just an alternate way to answers calls using Home Assistant with Two Way Audio ISAPI support!

## Donations
 Like my work? You can always [send me a donation](https://paypal.me/pergolafabio).
