hikvision-doorbell/DOCS.md, before:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Hikvision Doorbell

## Configuration
**Note**: _Remember to restart the add-on when the configuration is changed._

The following configuration options are available to be setup using the **Configuration** tab of this add-on in the Home Assistant interface:

### Doorbells
Configure the connection to the doorbells. If a value is not defined, the default setting is used.

For each of your doorbells, repeat the following configuration:

| Option        | Default       | Description                           |
| --------      | ----          | ----                                  |
| name          |               | Custom name for this doorbell (visibile in the HA UI and the sensors names)
| ip            |               | IP address of the doorbell
| username      | admin         | Username to access the doorbell
| password      |               | Password to access the doorbell

#### Example config
The following configuration setups two doorbells, named `Front door` and `Rear door`:
```yaml
- name: "Front door"
  ip: 192.168.0.1
  username: admin
  password: password  

- name: "Rear door"
  ip: 192.168.0.2
  username: admin
  password: password
```

### System
The following system settings are available:

| Name              | Default               | Description                           |
| --------          | ----                  | ----                                  |
| log_level         | WARNING               | The verbosity of the add-on logs. Available options: _ERROR_ _WARNING_ _INFO_ _DEBUG_
| sdk_log_level     | NONE               | The verbosity of the Hikvision SDK logs. Available options: _NONE_ _ERROR_ _INFO_ _DEBUG_

#### Example config
```yaml
log_level: WARNING
sdk_log_level: NONE
```

## Setup

### Requirements

A running MQTT broker.

You can use the officially supported __Mosquitto broker__, available in the official add-ons section of your Home Assistant instance. 
You can quickly set it up by clicking the following button:
[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the dashboard of a Supervisor add-on.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=core_mosquitto), or by manually finding it inside your `Add-on store`.

After you have started the __Mosquitto broker__ add-on, you should be able to automatically connect Home Assistant to the broker by going to `Settings` -> `Devices & Services` -> `MQTT`, and clicking `Configure`.

### Getting started

After you have setup an MQTT broker, you can start __Hikvision Doorbell__. 
Each of you defined doorbell should be visible as a device under `Settings` -> `Devices & Services` -> `Devices`.

### Sensors, switches and buttons
For each of your doorbells, the following entities are available:

- Sensors
  - `Call state` (_idle_, _ringing_, _dismissed_)
- Switches
  - `Door relays` (one for each available relay, open the door connected to the output relay of the device)
- Buttons
  - `Answer call`
  - `Reject call`
  - `Reboot`
- Device triggers (depending on device model)
  - `Motion detected`
  - `Tamper alarm`
  - `Door not closed`
  - ...

  The _device triggers_ are used to signal alarms and events generated by the doorbells (the type of events generated depends on the specific model).
  These are special entities that do not have a state associated to them (therefore are not visible in the list of HA entities, but under each `Device info` page). 
  
  **NOTE**: The device triggers are discovered *once the associated event is triggered on the device at least once.*
  
  You can use a [device trigger](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/automation/trigger/#device-triggers) in an automation by using a trigger of type `Device`.
  Check out the [Automating Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/getting-started/automation/) guide on automations or the [Automation](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/automation/) documentation for full details.
  
  <p align="center">
    <img src="assets/docs_device_triggers_automation.png" width="600px" />
  </p>

<!-- ### REST integration
DEPRECATED, comment out documentation
__Automatically enabled__ whenever there is no __MQTT broker__ available. 

This integration, while supported, is discouraged for new installations, but still available whenever you are unable to run an MQTT broker.
Due to the limitations of the Home Assistant _REST API_, it cannot provide a complete set of features as does the MQTT integration.
(e.g.: devices and button configurable from the HA UI)

The entities created by this integration are all binary sensors.
When triggered, the state of each binary sensor is `on` for 5 seconds.

The `door` sensors exports as attributes the `door ID` that was opened as well the badge/key used. -->


## Sending commands to the doorbells

There are two ways in which you can interact with your doorbells: 
- via the automatically created MQTT entities (switches, buttons)
- manually invoking the add-on `stdin` service

### MQTT entities

This add-on automatically creates [switches](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/switch/) and [buttons](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/button/) you can toggle and react to from the Home Assistant UI or from your own automations.

### STDIN service (advanced)

There is an advanced method to interact with the devices by sending a text message to the add-on on its `standard input` (STDIN).
You can use the built-in `hassio.addon_stdin` service provided by Home Assistant.

The input string must be in the format
```
<command> <doorbell_name> <optional_parameter>
```
- `<command>` is one of:

  | Command     | Description                                               |
  | --------    | ----                                                      |
  | unlock      | Unlock the specified door (`<optional_parameter>` must be `1` or `2`) connected to the doorbell station output relay
  | reboot      | Reboot the specified  door station
  | reject      | Reject the incoming call and stop the indoor stations from ringing
  | request     | Unknown
  | cancel      | Unknown
  | answer      | Unknown
  | reject      | Unknown
  | bellTimeout | Unknown
  | hangUp      | Unknown
  | deviceOnCall| Unknown
- `<doorbell_name>` is the custom name given to the doorbell in the configuration options, all lowercase and with whitespace substituted by underscores `_`. 

  E.G.: If the doorbell is named `Front door`, the input string must reference it as `front_door`.

- `<optional_parameter>` can be an additional string, used for instance to specify additional options for a command

#### Example
For more details see the [official documentation]((https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/hassio/#service-hassioaddon_stdin)) about the `hassio.addon_stdin` service.

#### Unlock a door
This service unlocks the door connected to the _1st_ output relay of the door station named `Front door`:
````yaml
service: hassio.addon_stdin
data:
  addon: aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell
  input: unlock front_door 1
````

#### Reboot the device
To reboot the doorbell named `Rear door`:
````yaml
service: hassio.addon_stdin
data:
  addon: aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell
  input: reboot rear_door
````

#### Reject a call
It might come in handy in tandem with a sensor monitoring the status of the front door. When someone presses the ring button on the doorbell, if the door is opened by hand without picking up the call, the below service rejects the call.
All indoor stations including the Hik-Connect devices stop ringing.

This example has been tested on a `DS-KD8003` outdoor unit with indoor stations named `Indoor unit`.
This type of command must be sent to an indoor station only.

````yaml
service: hassio.addon_stdin
data:
  addon: aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell
  input: reject indoor_unit
````

## Support
If you find a bug or need support [open an issue here](https://github.com/pergolafabio/Hikvision-Addons/issues/new) on GitHub.
If possible, please provide a copy of your logs in the issue form to help us better diagnose the problem!

### Troubleshooting
Have a look at the **Log** tab of the add-on in the Home Assistant UI.

You can increase the verbosity by changing the `system.log_level` configuration option. For instance:
```yaml
system:
  log_level: DEBUG
  sdk_log_level: DEBUG
```

*N.B.*: When the add-on connects to a doorbell for the first time, it might happen that your door station gets stuck, because it is downloading the complete backlog of events. A reboot might be required.

Commit message:

docs(DOCS.md): add info about output_relays

hikvision-doorbell/DOCS.md, after:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Hikvision Doorbell

## Configuration
**Note**: _Remember to restart the add-on when the configuration is changed._

The following configuration options are available to be setup using the **Configuration** tab of this add-on in the Home Assistant interface:

### Doorbells
Configure the connection to the doorbells. If a value is not defined, the default setting is used.

For each of your doorbells, repeat the following configuration:

| Option        | Default       | Description                           |
| --------      | ----          | ----                                  |
| name          |               | Custom name for this doorbell (visibile in the HA UI and the sensors names)
| ip            |               | IP address of the doorbell
| username      | admin         | Username to access the doorbell
| password      |               | Password to access the doorbell
| output_relays |               | (optional) Set this option if you don't see the correct number of door switches inside HA

#### Example config
The following configuration setups two doorbells, named `Front door` and `Rear door`:
```yaml
- name: "Front door"
  ip: 192.168.0.1
  username: admin
  password: password  

- name: "Rear door"
  ip: 192.168.0.2
  username: admin
  password: password
```

### System
The following system settings are available:

| Name              | Default               | Description                           |
| --------          | ----                  | ----                                  |
| log_level         | WARNING               | The verbosity of the add-on logs. Available options: _ERROR_ _WARNING_ _INFO_ _DEBUG_
| sdk_log_level     | NONE               | The verbosity of the Hikvision SDK logs. Available options: _NONE_ _ERROR_ _INFO_ _DEBUG_

#### Example config
```yaml
log_level: WARNING
sdk_log_level: NONE
```

## Setup

### Requirements

A running MQTT broker.

You can use the officially supported __Mosquitto broker__, available in the official add-ons section of your Home Assistant instance. 
You can quickly set it up by clicking the following button:
[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the dashboard of a Supervisor add-on.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=core_mosquitto), or by manually finding it inside your `Add-on store`.

After you have started the __Mosquitto broker__ add-on, you should be able to automatically connect Home Assistant to the broker by going to `Settings` -> `Devices & Services` -> `MQTT`, and clicking `Configure`.

### Getting started

After you have setup an MQTT broker, you can start __Hikvision Doorbell__. 
Each of you defined doorbell should be visible as a device under `Settings` -> `Devices & Services` -> `Devices`.

### Sensors, switches and buttons
For each of your doorbells, the following entities are available:

- Sensors
  - `Call state` (_idle_, _ringing_, _dismissed_)
- Switches
  - `Door relays` (one for each available relay, open the door connected to the output relay of the device)
- Buttons
  - `Answer call`
  - `Reject call`
  - `Reboot`
- Device triggers (depending on device model)
  - `Motion detected`
  - `Tamper alarm`
  - `Door not closed`
  - ...

  The _device triggers_ are used to signal alarms and events generated by the doorbells (the type of events generated depends on the specific model).
  These are special entities that do not have a state associated to them (therefore are not visible in the list of HA entities, but under each `Device info` page). 
  
  **NOTE**: The device triggers are discovered *once the associated event is triggered on the device at least once.*
  
  You can use a [device trigger](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/automation/trigger/#device-triggers) in an automation by using a trigger of type `Device`.
  Check out the [Automating Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/getting-started/automation/) guide on automations or the [Automation](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/automation/) documentation for full details.
  
  <p align="center">
    <img src="assets/docs_device_triggers_automation.png" width="600px" />
  </p>

<!-- ### REST integration
DEPRECATED, comment out documentation
__Automatically enabled__ whenever there is no __MQTT broker__ available. 

This integration, while supported, is discouraged for new installations, but still available whenever you are unable to run an MQTT broker.
Due to the limitations of the Home Assistant _REST API_, it cannot provide a complete set of features as does the MQTT integration.
(e.g.: devices and button configurable from the HA UI)

The entities created by this integration are all binary sensors.
When triggered, the state of each binary sensor is `on` for 5 seconds.

The `door` sensors exports as attributes the `door ID` that was opened as well the badge/key used. -->


## Sending commands to the doorbells

There are two ways in which you can interact with your doorbells: 
- via the automatically created MQTT entities (switches, buttons)
- manually invoking the add-on `stdin` service

### MQTT entities

This add-on automatically creates [switches](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/switch/) and [buttons](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/button/) you can toggle and react to from the Home Assistant UI or from your own automations.

### STDIN service (advanced)

There is an advanced method to interact with the devices by sending a text message to the add-on on its `standard input` (STDIN).
You can use the built-in `hassio.addon_stdin` service provided by Home Assistant.

The input string must be in the format
```
<command> <doorbell_name> <optional_parameter>
```
- `<command>` is one of:

  | Command     | Description                                               |
  | --------    | ----                                                      |
  | unlock      | Unlock the specified door (`<optional_parameter>` must be `1` or `2`) connected to the doorbell station output relay
  | reboot      | Reboot the specified  door station
  | reject      | Reject the incoming call and stop the indoor stations from ringing
  | request     | Unknown
  | cancel      | Unknown
  | answer      | Unknown
  | reject      | Unknown
  | bellTimeout | Unknown
  | hangUp      | Unknown
  | deviceOnCall| Unknown
- `<doorbell_name>` is the custom name given to the doorbell in the configuration options, all lowercase and with whitespace substituted by underscores `_`. 

  E.G.: If the doorbell is named `Front door`, the input string must reference it as `front_door`.

- `<optional_parameter>` can be an additional string, used for instance to specify additional options for a command

#### Example
For more details see the [official documentation]((https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/hassio/#service-hassioaddon_stdin)) about the `hassio.addon_stdin` service.

#### Unlock a door
This service unlocks the door connected to the _1st_ output relay of the door station named `Front door`:
````yaml
service: hassio.addon_stdin
data:
  addon: aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell
  input: unlock front_door 1
````

#### Reboot the device
To reboot the doorbell named `Rear door`:
````yaml
service: hassio.addon_stdin
data:
  addon: aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell
  input: reboot rear_door
````

#### Reject a call
It might come in handy in tandem with a sensor monitoring the status of the front door. When someone presses the ring button on the doorbell, if the door is opened by hand without picking up the call, the below service rejects the call.
All indoor stations including the Hik-Connect devices stop ringing.

This example has been tested on a `DS-KD8003` outdoor unit with indoor stations named `Indoor unit`.
This type of command must be sent to an indoor station only.

````yaml
service: hassio.addon_stdin
data:
  addon: aff2db71_hikvision_doorbell
  input: reject indoor_unit
````

## Support
If you find a bug or need support [open an issue here](https://github.com/pergolafabio/Hikvision-Addons/issues/new) on GitHub.
If possible, please provide a copy of your logs in the issue form to help us better diagnose the problem!

### Troubleshooting
Have a look at the **Log** tab of the add-on in the Home Assistant UI.

You can increase the verbosity by changing the `system.log_level` configuration option. For instance:
```yaml
system:
  log_level: DEBUG
  sdk_log_level: DEBUG
```

*N.B.*: When the add-on connects to a doorbell for the first time, it might happen that your door station gets stuck, because it is downloading the complete backlog of events. A reboot might be required.
