hikvision-doorbell/README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Hikvision Doorbell

<p align="center">
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports amd64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports aarch64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports i386 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
</p>

Connect your Hikvision IP door station to Home Assistant to receive events (like motion detection or incoming calls) and send back commands (like opening a door connected to the door station relay or rejecting a call).


## Features
- Capture doorbell events: callstatus/motion detection/door unlocked/tamper alarm/dismissed alarm
- Open doors connected to the doorbell (_useful for older devices where port 80 is blocked and `ISAPI` is not available_)
- Remote actions such as answering/rejecting the call, hanging up, etc using the `ISAPI` API.
_This can be exploited in HA automation. When for example a Zigbee door sensor signals a door opened, the ringing on the indoor stations and on the Hik-Connect devices is stopped. Se the documentation for more details._
- Reboot the door station

## Getting started

- Add this repository on your local Home Assistance instance by clicking the following button:
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons">
        <img src="https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg" alt="Open your Home Assistant instance and show the add add-on repository dialog with a specific repository URL pre-filled.">
    </a>
</p>

- Confirm the **Manage add-on repositories** dialog by clicking **ADD**.
- **Hikvision Doorbell** should be available in the _Add-on store_ of your Home Assistant. (If it is not visible after some minutes, reload the store page by navigating to _Settings_ -> _Add-ons_ -> _Add-on store_).
- Select the add-on then click **INSTALL**.
- Have a look at the **Documentation** tab of the add-on to setup the required configuration and to understand how this addon can be integrated in Home Assistant
(The documentation is also available online on the [Github repo](DOCS.md)).

## Supported devices
This devices has been reported to be working from other HA users.
If your device is not on the list, we are happy to include it. Just [open an issue here][issue] on GitHub and let us know the kind of device you have.

- DS-KV8413
- KD8003
- DS-KV8113
- KV8213
- DS-KV6113

## Additional resources
- [Add-on documentation](DOCS.md)
- [Development documentation](docs/)
- [Home Assistant community forum](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/add-on-hikvision-doorbell-integration/532796)

## Contributing

This is an active open-source project. We are always open to people who want to
use the code or contribute to it. Thank you for being involved! :heart_eyes:

Have a look at the [documentation folder](docs/) for more information.

## Donations
 Like my work? You can always [send me a donation](https://paypal.me/pergolafabio).

## Credits
This add-on was initially inspired by [this script](https://github.com/laszlojakab/hikvision-intercom-python-demo).

Commit message:

Update documentation with new config options and input commands.

hikvision-doorbell/README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Hikvision Doorbell

<p align="center">
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports amd64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports aarch64 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
   <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
      <img alt="Supports i386 Architecture" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg">
   </a>
</p>

Connect your Hikvision IP door stations to Home Assistant to receive events (like motion detection or incoming calls) and send back commands (like opening a door connected to the door station relay or rejecting a call).


## Features
- Capture doorbell events: callstatus/motion detection/door unlocked/tamper alarm/dismissed alarm
- Open doors connected to the doorbell (_useful for older devices where port 80 is blocked and `ISAPI` is not available_)
- Remote actions such as answering/rejecting the call, hanging up, etc (via the `ISAPI` API).
_This can be exploited in HA automation. When for example a Zigbee door sensor signals a door opened, the ringing on the indoor stations and on the Hik-Connect devices is stopped. Se the documentation for more details._
- Reboot the door station

## Getting started

- Add this repository on your local Home Assistance instance by clicking the following button:
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpergolafabio%2FHikvision-Addons">
        <img src="https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg" alt="Open your Home Assistant instance and show the add add-on repository dialog with a specific repository URL pre-filled.">
    </a>
</p>

- Confirm the **Manage add-on repositories** dialog by clicking **ADD**.
- **Hikvision Doorbell** should be available in the _Add-on store_ of your Home Assistant. (If it is not visible after some minutes, reload the store page by navigating to _Settings_ -> _Add-ons_ -> _Add-on store_).
- Select the **Hikvision Doorbell** add-on, then click **INSTALL**.
- Have a look at the **Documentation** tab of the add-on to setup the required configuration and to understand how this addon can be integrated in Home Assistant
(The documentation can also be browsed online in the [Github repo](DOCS.md)).

## Supported devices
This devices has been reported to be working from other HA users.
If your device is not on the list, we are happy to include it. Just [open an issue here][issue] on GitHub and let us know the kind of device you have.

- DS-KV8413
- KD8003
- DS-KV8113
- KV8213
- DS-KV6113

## Additional resources
- [Add-on documentation](DOCS.md)
- [Development documentation](docs/)
- [Home Assistant community forum](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/add-on-hikvision-doorbell-integration/532796)

## Contributing

This is an active open-source project. We are always open to people who want to
use the code or contribute to it. Thank you for being involved! :heart_eyes:

Have a look at the [documentation folder](docs/) for more information.

### Contributors
<a href="https://github.com/pergolafabio/Hikvision-Addons/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=pergolafabio/Hikvision-Addons" />
</a>

Made with [contrib.rocks](https://contrib.rocks).

## Donations
 Like my work? You can always [send me a donation](https://paypal.me/pergolafabio).

## Credits
This add-on was initially inspired by [this script](https://github.com/laszlojakab/hikvision-intercom-python-demo).
